Hello everyone! In this lesson we will work out the control of the character's camera.
Let's teach her to rotate around the character depending on the input of the mouse.
Let's start by creating two new axis mappings. Click on the + button.
The first mapping will be called lookup. He will be responsible for tilting the camera up and down.
This angle will change depending on the vertical position of the mouse. So we add MouseY.
Create a second mapping, call it Turn Around. He will be responsible for turning the camera around the character.
The angle of this rotation will change depending on the horizontal position of the mouse. Add MouseX
and return to visual studio.
We declare two functions that we need to rotate the camera.
LookUp and TurnAround. They will have the same signature as MoveForward and MoveRight.
We create a body for each function. To do this, right-click on the functions
and select quick actions and refactoring -> create declaration, definition from the menu. We connect
through the input component mapping and the functions that we just created.
Go to the body of the lookup function. To rotate the camera up and down, we will use a pawn function
called AddControllerPitchInput - the function takes one parameter, the value of the pitch,
which will be added to the rotation. We pass our Amount parameter into it, which will be equal to
zero if the mouse does not move, it will take a positive value if the mouse moves
up and negative if down. If we press f12 on the function, we fall inside, we will see that
in fact this function is a wrapper over the AddPitchInput function of the controller. We fall further into AddPitchInput.
Inside this function, the pitch angle is changed by the RotationInput variable.
It changes to the value of the variable that we pass multiplied by IputPitchScale.
Similarly, add the AddControllerPitchInput function to the TurnAround function. Thus, we change the
rotation of the pawn, that is, our character, through the rotation of the controller, that is, the pawn does not own the
rotation of the control. This division is not accidental and can be used in many situations.
For example, if we need to aim at one point with the mouse, but visually the body is rotated absolutely to another.
Press play and see what we get when we move along the X axis
, the camera-character system rotates. Everything is correct.
But when we move the mouse horizontally, nothing happens to us. Let's fix this quickly.
We will do this in blueprint so that we do not recompile the project. We open our character.
We select our camera component and in details in the search, enter: use pawn control rotation and put a checkmark in front of this parameter.
After setting this parameter to true, the rotation of our camera will correspond
to the rotation of the controller, the angles of which we change when moving the mouse. Compile. We save.
Let's also show you a little trick so that we don't click on compile-save a hundred times. Click on the arrow
next to compile and select save on compile on success only, if we change something
in the blueprint and compile it, it will be saved automatically. Press play again. We see that the
camera began to rotate along Y, but it rotates with an inversion, to correct this we can
return to project settings -> input and change the scale value of our lookup parameter to -1.
And if we open the player controller, we will see the reason why the inversion occurs.
This is the input pitch scale parameter. This parameter is negative, we saw it in the code of
the AddPitchInput function, by changing its value we can control the speed of rotation of our camera.
The camera's pitch is working, but the rotation is around the point
at which the camera is currently located. Let's tweak this a bit and make it so
that we can rotate the camera in an orbit around the character.
We will do this using an additional component called the spring arm. Let's go into the code and add it.
Let's create a new component. Copy the property macro.
The component is of type USpringArmComponent.
Add a forward declaration to our class.
And go to the .cpp file of our character.
We connect the header file of the new component, it is located at GameFramework / SpringArmComponent.h
We create the component in the constructor in a known way through the CreateDefaultSubobject function.
Let's add it to the root component. To do this, we will use the SetupAttachment function.
GetRootComponent ()
Just as we did with the blueprint camera before, let's now set the
use pawn control rotation variable to true through the code for our spring arm component.
And we change the parent of our camera component from the root component to the spring arm component. Launch editor.
We open the blueprint with our character. Go to viewport. In the component tree, we can see our created spring arm component.
The camera we have is not clear where, because it has a relative transformation.
Let's reset it. This component is a kind of tripod on which the camera is located.
We can change various parameters: shoulder length, offsets and others. Also, this component is very
helpful in collision processing so that our camera does not bump into the wall. We will see this a little later.
Let's set a more adequate offset for our camera. For Z, for example, 80.
Compile. Let's remove the use pawn control rotation value from the camera component that we set earlier.
For the spring arm component, we have set this value in the code.
Press play and our camera rotates in an orbit around the character.
In the subsequent lessons of this section, we will be closely involved with character animations.
Now let's add a simple running animation for the character, otherwise it looks a little silly.
moving in this position. Set the mesh in the animation category to animation mode = use animation offset
and select some animation from those that we added, for example, Idle.
So Idle, this is just a pose. Let's choose a run, for example, run forward. Compile. We start the game.
So, we have set one animation for the character, one animated asset. Now he always
runs, but the main goal we had in this tutorial: to set up the camera, with which we have successfully corrected.
And the last thing in this lesson. If we pay attention to the AddControllerYawInput
and AddControllerPitchInput functions, we will notice that these functions have the same signature as LookUp and TurnAround.
The functions are identical: they return nothing and take only one parameter - float.
What does this give us? The following gives us this - we can not create
additional functions, but bind the AddControllerYawInput and AddControllerPitchInput functions directly.
Remove LookUp and TurnAround functions from .cpp and .h files.